---
layout: post
title: It's Alive!
date: 2024-05-24 14:03:00
description: CIMMI is in a working state
tags: cimmi
categories: surf
---

#### Kraymer-Moyal

Today, after some quick cleanup of yesterday's `Network` troubles, I got to work on implementing the various algorithms necessary for the OPO simulation. This first started with the `Network::kraymer_moyal` method, a process to find the current gradient of the in-phase and quadrature-phase components of DOPO pulses. This task was very easy, since it only involved copying my old C code and changing some syntax and variable names. This worked first try!

#### Euler-Maruyama 

Secondly, I had to use the gradients and a C++ normal distrobution generator to numerically integrate across the gradient. This was done from memory since I had written this function a few times before. I did need to figure out how RNG worked in C++, but this was exeedingly easy and allowed me to add a universal RNG for the entire `Network` class, so any random number generation within works via the same seed. This did not work first try, since I had forgotten to include the pdates for the quadrature phase.

#### `cimmi` Works!

Afterwards, all I had to do was manuever the two functions into the `Network::run` method, and everything was good to go! This process was exeedingly easy after the preperation, and there were no issues with SWIG since none of this code passes the interface.

#### Features to do:

Still, while we have the DOPO network equations simulating, we are far from a useable library. The main features that need to be added before include:
- A `Simulator` class to perform network control and readout
- A proper `Simulator` class interface to allow us to hide the `Network` and `Graph` classes from Python exposure
  - This includes documentation of the interface
- Proper Logging
- Error handling for all functions that could be used improperly
  - This includes state tracking for `Network` class setup (since there is a particular order that if not followed can cause segfaults)
- GPU acceleration of `Network::kraymer_moyal`
- Reworking build process into `setuptools` library
- Automatic evaluation of max cut solutions
- Additional solvers (Sahini-Gonzales, Simulated Annealling)
- Internal random graph generation
